===================================
LA Django 2012-04-17 various talks
===================================

All lightning talks. I was going to give one but was too busy to finishing assembling my talk.

Talk #1 - Deploying Django with wsgi and nginx
================================================

by Sandy Mahalo

* Demonstrated against Django 1.4
* Very technical and spoke fast so didn't get a chance to write things done. :P
* Material attribution: http://bit.ly/hf6974

Talk #2 - Naming things
========================

by Michael Avila, works at EdgeCast

Two things hard in computer science
------------------------------------

* Caching invalidation, naming things, and off-by-one errors. -- Phil Karlton

Naming things is **very** hard
------------------------------

* Programs are just theories for how computers can interact with the world.

Implementation patterns
------------------------

Using house and street as our naming pattern target:

class - simple super class name
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Top of inheritence chain
* Stick to one word
* **Do this**: Street
* **Not this**: HouseList

class - qualified sub class name
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* How are they alike?
* How are they different?
* **Do this**: Hose -> GardenHose
* **Not this**: Hose -> WaterSource


variable - role suggesting name
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* What is it's type?
* What is it's scope/lifetime?
* What is it's role?
* **Do this**: adams
* **Not this**: adamsHouse

function - intention-revealing name
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Stick to verb phrases
* **Do this**: street.add_house(a)
* **Not this**: street.houses(a)

Useful books for naming things
---------------------------------------

 * `Random House Word Menu`_
 * `Ultimate Visual Dictionary`_
 
.. _`Random House Word Menu`: http://consumer.io/random-house-websters-word-menu/4f8e352f2beba8000e000000/
.. _`Ultimate Visual Dictionary`: http://www.consumer.io/ultimate-visual-dictionary/4f8e356b2beba8000d000003/

Talk #3 - Extracting Domain Objects
===================================

by Brian Riley, Edgecast

* Target of the talk was some of the code from the Django tutorial :-)
* Django is for serving out the web, not not necessarily other things.
* Sometimes it can be good to extract the business logic from the obvious place and put into other control systems.

    * Celery comes to mind.

.. sourcecode:: python

    # old way
    selected_choice.vote += 1

    # domain way
    class Voter(object):
        DEFAULT_NUMBER_OF_VOTES = 1
         
        def number_of_votes(self, user):
            if user.is_authenticated():
                return user.votes
            return Voter.DEFAULT_NUMBER_OF_VOTES

        
        
        

