==============
April 26, 2012
==============

.. note:: Arrived late, missed the intro talk about the venue. As always, got a seat up by the front. :-)

farmhouse.LA
==============

* http://farmhouse.la/
* Holds a regional mini-conference held in Hollywood once a year.

    * http://farmhouse.la/2012

Mojito
======

* by Gameil ?

    * at Yahoo for 6.5 years
    * github: gzip
    * Demo and slides are here: https://github.com/gzip/mojito-app
    * http://developer.yahoo.com/cocktails/mojito/docs/faq/
    
.. note:: Way too many bullets on the slides. Links are just underlined blue titles. Sigh.

What is Mojito?
----------------

* Open Source MVC client/server framework for node.js
* Core component is the mojit (not quite a module, not quite a widget)

Mojito Features
----------------

* Built on YUI 3
* Server, client, or both
* View engine is mustache
* Broadcasts easily between server and client
* routing, lazy loading, localization
* Mojito is open source

Installation
------------

.. sourcecode:: bash

    $ npm i mojito -g
    $ npm i supervisor -g    
    
Mojito Terms
------------------

* **action context** is the central access point to rest of mojito in a controller
* **affinity** determines where a resource will be executed. `client`, `server`, or `common`
* **binder** only execute in the client and provide access to the controller.
* **context** key/value pairs for resolving configuration

Mojito request flow
---------------------

1. Middleware
2. Routing
3. App configuration
4. Mojits

    * COntrollers
    * Addons and Autoloads
    * Mojit configuration
    * Models
    * Views
    * Binders
    * Assets (css, images, non-YUI libs)
    
Middleware
-----------

built on express.js

.. sourcecode:: javascript

    module.exports = function (req, res, next){
        // do something
        next();
    };
    
Routing
---------

* stored in `routes.json` and can vary based on context
* Specify an HTTP method and a mojit action
* May contain Sinatra-style named params
* Calls in entry in specs or an "anonymous" mojit
* Can build URLs from routes using the url addon

.. sourcecode:: javascript

    [{
        "settings": [ "master" ],
        "conf": {
          "verbs": ["get"],
          "path": "/conf",
          "call": "conf.index"
        },
        "preso": {
          "verbs": ["get"],
          "path": "/slides/:slide",
          "regex": {"slide": "[0-9]*"},
          "call": "preso.index"
        },
        "home": {
          "verbs": ["get"],
          "path": "/",
          "call": "weather.index"
        }
    }]

App configuration
------------------

* Stored in application.json
* Can vary based on context
* Configures YUI in yui

Controllers
------------

* May run on the server or client
* Responds to actions
* Have access to action context, addons, autoloads, models, views, and configuration

Models
----------

* Have access only to confiuration, autoloads, and other models. 
* Any additional data must be passed through the controller.

.. note:: I'm guessing that's for the sake of security

Views
------

* Out of the box views are Mustache
* They are switching to Handlebars soon, which is possible because the template languages are pluggable

Binders
-------

* Sole access point to controllers and the rest of Mojito in the client
* Have access to autoloads, and other things. **TOO MUCH STUFF IN EACH SLIDE**

Addons and autoloads
---------------------

* `Addons` are how you share code
* Have access to `addons`, `autoloads`, `models`, `views`, and `configuration`
* `Autoloads` are normal YUI modules and will be deployed automatically if required in a binder, controller, etc
* Mojito ships with many addons

Assets
-----------------

* Assets are css and non-YUI libs and images. They have no affinity
* Does not deploy automatically
* May be included in `application`,`json` or `controller`.
* JSON Dialogue to call the asset is really uncomfortably nested control structures. Hmmmm...