======================================================
May 26, 2011 - Python at Walt Disney Animation Studios
======================================================

WDA = Walt Disney Animation Studios

How many ways does WDA use Python?
========================================

* Scripting in Maya.
* DLight (lighting controls)
* Scene Navigation (navigation through scenes in a script once audio/video added)
* Art version control systems.
* Scripts to facilitate moving images and data in and out of sequences
* syrup - SAP scraper. Python Interface to our SAP based timecard system.
* Python CGI that interfaces with Production management tools and generates Excel.
* munki - A client/server to distribute 3rd party packages to max
* Coda - queuing system. C++ application with Python expressions and API
* Squish - 3rd party QT GUI test automation. Lots of Python scripts there.
* Mentor - Unittest library that interfaces well with Maya.
* GEMS - Python CGI system for searching Disney Archives
* Most 3rd party tools for the visual effect community comes with a Python API. How cool is that?
* Another 20 things I couldn't keep up with!

Specifics on how WDA use Python?
=================================

Sample apps out of many:

* Dlight

    * C++ 52%, Python 48%
    * Surfacing
    * Lighting
    * Render Picture
    
* DLight GUI

    * C++ 48%, Python 52%

* Scene Navigator

    * Python 100%
    * Shot management
    * Element properties
    
*all tools are fully scriptable in Python*

Disney Messaging
-----------------

* Defines messages independent of Language
* Generates C++ header files with Python bindings

Regression Testing
------------------

* Approx 2,000 regression tests between products
* Tests cover both C++ and Python functions
* 99% written using unittest

Performance
-------------

* A hot topic!
* PyQt vs Qt
* Smart use of classes far mor important than Language interface
* Time-critical functions written (or rewritten) in C++

Package interoperability
-------------------------

All provide a Python API!!!

* Maya (autodesk)
* Houdini (Side effects)
* Renderman (Pixar)

Choosing Python
---------------

* Performance trade-off
* Development cost
* Support cost
* Pipeline integration